Feat: Screenshot style + UI doc instructions (#2927)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: docs/screenshot-standards.md

# Screenshot standards

> Use this page to capture clear, consistent screenshots that stay accurate and easy to maintain.
> 
> | Question | Answer |
> | :---- | :---- |
> | What size should I use? | 1500 × 845 |
> | Where do I save files? | `app/_assets/images/docs/...` (lowercase-with-dashes filenames). |
> | How do I name files? | `product-version-feature-goal.png`. For example, `konnect-v2-1-dev-portal-menu.png`. |
> | Can I use screenshots in how-to guides? | Yes, only when text is insufficient; otherwise use a small, focused screenshot or a wireframe. |
> | What can’t I screenshot? | Third-party UIs, real customer data/PII, volatile content, or anything that harms performance or localization. |
> | What is shot-scraper? | A Playwright-based CLI that automates repeatable screenshots for documents. |
> 
> ## Capture standards
> 
> Before including screenshots, write the document first. Add a screenshot only when words are not enough to explain the state, layout, or focus. Prefer a small, cropped image over a full-screen capture. For conceptual layouts, use a simple wireframe instead.
> 
> Use the following capture checklist to include a screenshot into a document:
> - [ ] Capture with **shotscraper**  
> - [ ] Set resolution to **1500 × 845**  
> - [ ] Crop to the relevant panel; omit the cursor  
> - [ ] If needed, add a thin rectangular highlight in #0788ad; avoid heavy annotations  
> - [ ] Apply the `image-border` class when a surrounding border improves contrast  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Capture standards

Use the following capture checklist to include a screenshot into a document:
- [ ] Capture with **shotscraper**  
- [ ] Set resolution to **1500 × 845**  
- [ ] Crop to the relevant panel; omit the cursor  
- [ ] If needed, add a thin rectangular highlight in #0788ad; avoid annotations  

### FAQ

| Question | Answer |
| :---- | :---- |
| What size should I use? | 1500 × 845 |
| Where do I save files? | `app/_assets/images/docs/...` (lowercase-with-dashes filenames). |
| How do I name files? | `product-version-feature-goal.png`. For example, `konnect-v2-1-dev-portal-menu.png`. |
| Can I use screenshots in how-to guides? | Yes, only when text is insufficient. |
| What can’t I screenshot? | Third-party UIs, real customer data/PII, volatile content, or anything that harms performance or localization. |

```

Reviewer: Flipped seems better

The following saves a full-page screenshot as contributing.png in your current directory:
```sh
shot-scraper https://developer.konghq.com/contributing/ -o contributing.png
```
2. (Optional) Capture only a section
If you want just a specific element, add a CSS selector:
```sh
shot-scraper https://developer.konghq.com/contributing/ -o contributing-section.png --selector "main"
```
3. Open the image in Visual Studio Code
    - Launch VS Code
    - Select **File → Open File…** 
    - Select `contributing.png.`
    - (Optional) Install the free extension Image Preview if you want inline image editing and annotations.
4. Edit or annotate
    - In VS Code, right-click the image to open it with your default editor (Paint, GIMP, or Photoshop).
    - Save your changes back to the same file or to a new filename. For example, `contributing-annotated.png.`.
5. Commit the screenshot
Add the new screenshot to your docs repo:
```sh
git add contributing-annotated.png
git commit -m "Add screenshot of Contributing page"
```
6. Use the image in documentation
Insert the screenshot with standard Markdown:
```sh
![Contributing page screenshot](./contributing-annotated.png)
```

> ## Text and image flow
> 
> **Introduce → show → explain**: captions are optional but alt text is **required**. Write a lead sentence that sets context and ends with a colon, then the image, and then alt text.  
> **Why:** Keeps narrative coherent and images purposeful; supports accessibility and localization.  
> 
> | Do | Don't |
> | :---- | :---- |
> | Write: “From the **Menu** tab, click **Add menu item:**” | Drop a screenshot without introduction: ![Add menu](/assets/images/docs/add-menu.png) |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Text and image flow

**Introduce → show → explain**: captions are optional but alt text is **required**. Write a lead sentence that sets context and ends with a colon, then the image, and then alt text.  
**Why:** Keeps narrative coherent and images purposeful; supports accessibility and localization.  

| Do | Don't |
| :---- | :---- |
| Write: “From the **Menu** tab, click **Add menu item:**” | Drop a screenshot without introduction: ![Add menu](/assets/images/docs/add-menu.png) |

```

Seems more related to writing UI steps

> ## File storage and naming
> 
> Store images under `app/_assets/images/docs/...` and name them predictably using `product-version-feature-goal.png.` format that reflects keyboard-navigatable labels. This pattern improves search, swap-outs, and translation at scale.
> 
> | Do | Don't |
> | :---- | :---- |
> | Save to `app/_assets/images/docs/konnect-v2-1-dev-portal-menu.png.` | Reference decK without noting destructive behavior. |
> | Use lowercase and dashes: `mesh-v1-overview-tabs.png.` | Mix cases and spaces: `Mesh Overview Tabs.PNG.` |
> 
> ## Legal and privacy
> 
> Never expose real data. Use realistic fakes and consistent redaction. For example, ACME accounts and seeded IDs. This protects confidentiality and compliance while keeping the UI intelligible.
> 
> | Do | Don't |
> | :---- | :---- |
> | Show username as `acme-admin@example.com`. | Show real identifiers: `cora.byrne@konghq.com`. |
> | Replace domain with `example.com.`. | Use production hostname like `kong-internal.prod.`. |
> 
> ## Automation
> Use **Shot-scraper** to make captures reproducible. It drives a headless browser through Playwright, sets width/height, and crops to CSS selectors. Try to use simple `shots.yml` so any writer can refresh images in one step.
> 
> | Do | Don't |
> | :---- | :---- |
> | `shot-scraper https://example.konghq.com/docs --width 1500 --height 845 -s '#sidebar' -o app/_assets/images/docs/konnect-menu.png.`. | Manually take a screenshot, drag it into a doc, and save as `Screenshot (5).png.`. |
> | Add a `shots.yml` file for batch refresh. | Capture ad hoc each time, making updates inconsistent. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The info here is already covered higher up on the page. The automation section could be folded into the shotscraper section above it.
